Add AppSec troubleshooting docs (#13002)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security_platform/application_security/troubleshooting.md

{{< programming-lang lang="PHP" >}}

For PHP, to start troubleshooting issues with the Datadog Application Security extension, enable debug logs in the Application Security extension’s `.ini` file.

The extension's `ini` file is usually found in `/etc/php/<version>/xxx/conf.d/98-ddappsec.ini`, but the location may differ depending on your installation. Look at the beginning of the `phpinfo()` output to identify the directory that is scanned for `.ini` files, if any. In the `.ini` file, set the following configuration options with the following: 

```php
ddappsec.log_level=‘debug’
ddappsec.helper_extra_args=‘--log_level=debug’
ddappsec.helper_log_file=‘/tmp/helper.log’
```

The extension outputs logs to the default `php_error` log file. If there are no logs in the file, add the following to the `.ini` file:

```php
ddappsec.log_file=’tmp/extension.log’
```

### Installation fails to find PHP
If the installation script is unable to find the correct PHP version, you can set the `--php-bin` to the PHP binary location, for example:

```
$ php dd-library-php-setup.php --php-bin /usr/bin/php7.4 --tracer-version=latest --appsec-version=latest
```
### Connection to helper failed

> If the Application Security extension is unable to communicate with the helper process, you will see the following log warning:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Application Security extension is unable to communicate with the helper process, the following warning occurs:
```

1. Confirm the latest version of Application Security is running by checking that `appsec_enabled` is `true` in the [startup logs][1]

    a. If you don’t see startup logs after a request has been sent, add the environment variable `DD_TRACE_STARTUP_LOGS=true` to enable startup logs. Check the startup logs for `appsec_enabled` is `true`.

    b. If `appsec_enabled` is `false`, then Application Security was not enabled correctly. See [installation instructions][2].

    c. If `appsec_enabled` is not in the startup logs, the latest Application Security version needs to be installed. See [installation instructions][2].

2. Is the tracer working? Can you see relevant traces on the APM dashboard? 

    Application Security relies on the tracer so if you don’t see traces, then the tracer might not be working. See [APM Troubleshooting][3].

3. In your application directory, run the command `npm explore @datadog/native-appsec -- npm run install` and restart your app.

    a. If `@datadog/native-appsec` is not found then the installation is incorrect. See [installation instructions][2].
    

>     b. If it works, you probably build and run your app on different OS, add the command to your runtime start script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    b. If @datadog/native-appsec is found when starting your application, add the command to your runtime start script.
```

>     c. If it doesn’t work, you might be running an unsupported runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    c. If the tracer still does not work, you might be running an unsupported runtime.
```

4. To enable logs, add the following environment variables: 

    ```
    DD_TRACE_DEBUG=1
    DD_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL=info
    ```

[1]: /tracing/troubleshooting/tracer_startup_logs/
[2]: /security_platform/application_security/getting_started/nodejs/?tab=dockercli
[3]: /tracing/troubleshooting/
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="ruby" >}}

For Ruby, if you don’t see Application Security events in your Application Security dashboard after a few minutes, enable tracer diagnostics for [debug logs][1] in the file `config/initializers/datadog-tracer.rb`. For example:

```ruby
Datadog.configure do |c|
  c.diagnostics.debug = true
end
```

Debug logs are verbose but useful. If you open up a ticket with [Datadog support][1], forward the logs with your request.

> #### Check #1: Is AppSec correctly enabled?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Is AppSec correctly enabled?
```

Application Security has been correctly enabled if you see logs such as:

```
D, [2021-12-14T11:03:32.167125 #73127] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (libddwaf/lib/datadog/security/waf.rb:296:in `block in logger=') {:level=>:ddwaf_log_info, :func=> "ddwaf_set_log_cb", :file=>"PowerWAFInterface.cpp", :message=>"Sending log messages to binding, min level trace"}
D, [2021-12-14T11:03:32.200491 #73127] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (libddwaf/lib/datadog/security/waf.rb:296:in `block in logger=') {:level=>:ddwaf_log_debug, :func= >"parse", :file=>"parser_v2.cpp", :message=>"Loaded 124 rules out of 124 available in the ruleset"}
```

If you do not see those logs, check the following:

> - The correct Application Security environment variables are set up for your application process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the correct Application Security environment variables are set for your application process. 
```

- The latest gem version is installed.
- The tracer is configured correctly and sending APM traces to your APM dashboard.

> #### Check #2a: Is Application Security called on HTTP requests?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Is Application Security called for each HTTP request?
```

> To confirm that Application Security is called for each HTTP request, trigger a [test attack](#1-send-a-test-attack-to-your-application) and look for these logs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To confirm that Application Security is called for each HTTP request, trigger a [test attack](send-a-test-attack-to-your-application) and look for these logs:
```

D, [2022-01-19T21:25:50.580300 #341792] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (/home/lloeki/src/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/lib/datadog/security/contrib/rack/gateway/watcher.rb:25:in `block (2 levels) in watch') root span: 964736568335365930
D, [2022-01-19T21:25:50.580371 #341792] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (/home/lloeki/src/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/lib/datadog/security/contrib/rack/gateway/watcher.rb:26:in `block (2 levels) in watch') active span: 964736568335365930
D, [2022-01-19T21:25:50.581061 #341792] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (/home/lloeki/src/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/lib/datadog/security/contrib/rack/reactive/request.rb:34:in `block in subscribe') reacted to ["request.headers", "request.uri.raw", "request.query", "request.cookies", "request.body.raw"]: [{"version"=>"HTTP/1.1", "host"=>"127.0.0.1:9292", "accept"=>"*/*", "user-agent"=>"Nessus SOAP"}, "http://127.0.0.1:9292/", [], {}, ""]
```

If you don’t see those logs, try the following:

- Check that another upstream security system is not filtering requests based on the test header value, which would prevent the request from reaching the application. 

> - Send another [test attack](#1-send-a-test-attack-to-your-application) using another user's agent values in the curl command to see if the event is successfully sent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Send another [test attack](send-a-test-attack-to-your-application) using another user's agent values in the curl command to see if the event is successfully sent.
```

Reviewer: Updating headers to remove hashes as we typically avoid where we can. Best practice is to use H3-H5s for these instances.

- Look in the application logs for the exact request you ran to confirm the request reached the application, and was not responded to by another upstream system.

If the Rack integration was configured manually, sometimes a known issue prevents Application Security from working. For example:

```
Datadog.configure do |c|
  c.use :rails
  ...
  c.use :rack, web_service_name: "something", request_queuing: true
```

If `c.use :rack` is present, remove it to see if the check passes.

> #### Check #2b: Is Application Security detecting HTTP request security events?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Is Application Security detecting HTTP request security events?
```

> To confirm that Application Security is detecting security events, trigger a [test attack](#1-send-a-test-attack-to-your-application), and look for these logs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To confirm that Application Security is detecting security events, trigger a [test attack](send-a-test-attack-to-your-application), and look for these logs:
```

```
D, [2021-12-14T22:39:53.268820 #106051] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (ddtrace/lib/datadog/security/contrib/rack/reactive/request.rb:63:in `block in subscribe') WAF: #<struct Datadog::Security::WAF::Result action=:monitor, data=[{"rule"=>{"id"=>"ua0-600-10x", "name"=>"Nessus", "tags"=>{"type"=>"security_scanner", "category"=>"attack_attempt"}}, "rule_matches"=>[{"operator"=>"match_regex", "operator_value"=>"(?i)^Nessus(/|([ :]+SOAP))", "parameters"=>[{"address"=>"server.request.headers.no_cookies", "key_path"=>["user-agent"], "value"=>"Nessus SOAP", "highlight"=>["Nessus SOAP"]}]}]}], perf_data=nil, perf_total_runtime=20519>
```
If you don’t see those logs, check that another upstream security system is not filtering out the requests or altering them based on the test header value. 

> #### Check #3a: Is the tracer sending traces with security data?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Is the tracer sending traces with security data?
```

> Application Security events are sent with APM traces. To confirm that Application Security correctly detects and inserts security data into traces, trigger a [test attack](#1-send-a-test-attack-to-your-application), and look for these tracer logs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Application Security events are sent with APM traces. To confirm that Application Security correctly detects and inserts security data into traces, trigger a [test attack](send-a-test-attack-to-your-application), and look for these tracer logs:
```

```
Tags: [
   runtime-id => 0c3dfc67-9cf3-457c-a980-0229b203d048,
   _dd.runtime_family => ruby,
   appsec.event => true,
   _dd.appsec.json => {"triggers":[{"rule":{"id":"ua0-600-10x","name":"Nessus","tags":{"type":"security_scanner","category":"attack_attempt"}},"rule_matches":[{"operator":"match_regex","operator_value":"(?i)^Nessus(/|([ :]+SOAP))","parameters":[{"address":"server.request.headers.no_cookies","key_path":["user-agent"],"value":"Nessus SOAP","highlight":["Nessus SOAP"]}]}]}]},
   http.request.headers.host => 127.0.0.1:9292,
   http.request.headers.accept => */*,
   http.request.headers.user-agent => Nessus SOAP,
   http.response.headers.content-type => text/plain,
   http.host => 127.0.0.1,
   http.useragent => Nessus SOAP,
   network.client.ip => 127.0.0.1,
   _dd.origin => appsec,
   http.method => GET,
   http.url => /,
   http.base_url => http://127.0.0.1:9292,
   http.status_code => 200,
   http.response.headers.content_type => text/plain]
Metrics: [
   _dd.agent_psr => 1.0,
   system.pid => 155644.0,
   _dd.appsec.enabled => 1.0,
   _dd.measured => 1.0,
   _sampling_priority_v1 => 2.0]]
```

> Please wait a minute for the agent to forward the traces, then check that the traces show up in the APM dashboard. The security information in the traces may take additional time to be processed by the backend before showing up as events in the Application Security dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wait a minute for the agent to forward the traces, then check that the traces show up in the APM dashboard. The security information in the traces may take additional time to be processed by Datadog before showing up as events in the Application Security dashboard.
```

> #### Check #3b: Is Application Security forwarding security events to the agent?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Is Application Security forwarding security events to the Agent?
```

> To confirm that Application Security is detecting and forwarding security events to the agent, trigger a [test attack](#1-send-a-test-attack-to-your-application), and look for these logs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To confirm that Application Security is detecting and forwarding security events to the agent, trigger a [test attack](send-a-test-attack-to-your-application), and look for these logs:
```

```

> Please wait about a minute for the agent to forward the events to the backend, then check that the traces show up in the APM dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wait a minute for the Agent to forward the events to Datadog, then check that the traces show up in the APM dashboard.
```

[1]: /tracing/troubleshooting/#tracer-debug-logs
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< /programming-lang-wrapper >}}

If you continue to have issues with Application Security, contact [Datadog support][1] with the following information: 

> - Confirmation that the [test attack](#1-send-a-test-attack-to-your-application) was successfully sent 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Confirmation that the [test attack](send-a-test-attack-to-your-application) was successfully sent 
```

  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Monitoring Threats with Datadog Application Security"
- link: "/security_platform/application_security/setup_and_configure/#compatibility"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Programming Language and Framework Compatibility"
---

If you experience unexpected behavior with Datadog Application Security, there are a few common issues you can investigate and this guide may help resolve issues quickly. If you continue to have trouble, reach out to [Datadog support][1] for further assistance. 

## Confirm Application Security is running

If `appsec_enabled` is `true` in the [tracer startup logs][2], then Application Security is running. 

Alternatively, you can use the metric `datadog.apm.appsec_host` to check if Application Security is running.

1. Go to **Metrics > Summary** in Datadog.
2. Search for the metric `datadog.apm.appsec_host`. If the metric doesn’t exist, then there are no services running Application Security. If the metric exists, the services are reported with the metric tags `host` and `service`.
3. Select the metric, and in the **Tags** section, search for `service` to see which services are running Application Security. 

> 

Author: Thanks! I added this section and included a line at the bottom linking to the setup + configure in app. https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/13002/commits/5ad306298a0361fda1e06536a804abc4ce6f5af6

## Application Security rate limits

> Application Security traces are rate-limited to 100 traces per second. Traces sent after the limit are not reported. Please contact [Datadog support][1] if you need to change the limit.

Author: ```suggestion
Application Security traces are rate-limited to 100 traces per second. Traces sent after the limit are not reported. Contact [Datadog support][1] if you need to change the limit.
```

  DDAS-0012-02: Blocked attack from <full_iaw_output>
  ```

### 2. Check if required tracer integrations are deactivated

Application Security relies on certain tracer integrations, if they are deactivated then Application Security won't work. To see if there are deactivated integrations, look for `disabled_integrations` in the [startup logs][2].

The required integrations vary by language.

{{< programming-lang-wrapper langs="java,.NET,go,ruby,PHP,NodeJS" >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="java" >}}

For Java, the required integrations are the following:

- servlet
- servlet-2
- servlet-3
- servlet-request-body
- grizzly
- grizzly-char-body
- grizzly-byte-body
- grizzly-filterchain
- spring-web
- spring-webflux

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang=".NET" >}}

For .Net, the required integrations are the following:

- AspNet

**Note:** If AspNetCore is disabled, Application Security should still work with this framework.

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="PHP" >}}

**[NEED INFO]**

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="go" >}}

For Go, the required integrations are the following:

- net/http
- Chi
- Echo
- Gorilla/mux
- gRPC

> **Note:** They can’t be deactivated but rather just not integrated into the program’s source code.

Reviewer 2: Yes, you can even remove that sentence. In the context of a Go program, the reader will understand what this means.

We should probably link to the integrations' API documentations though like we did in the other appsec go installation pages. I can provide them back to you if you need to.

> **Note:** They can’t be deactivated but rather just not integrated into the program’s source code.

Author: 👍 Removed the sentence and added links to Go integration API docs.

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="NodeJS" >}}

For NodeJS, the required integrations are the following:

- HTTP

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="ruby" >}}

For Ruby, the required integrations are the following:

- Rack

> **Note:** Rack can be manually added or automatically added with the Rails or Sinatra integration. If manually added, the tracer middleware must appear before the security middleware in the Rack stack.

Reviewer 3: Links to the tracer docs could definitely be very relevant:

General link (on GitHub, in doc, same content):
- https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/blob/master/docs/GettingStarted.md
- https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/setup/ruby/

Direct links to relevant tracer's integrations docs (on GitHub, in doc, same content):

- Rack:
  - https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/blob/master/docs/GettingStarted.md#rack
  - https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/setup/ruby/#rack
- Rails:
  - https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/blob/master/docs/GettingStarted.md#rails
  - https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/setup/ruby/#rails
- Sinatra:
  - https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/blob/master/docs/GettingStarted.md#sinatra
  - https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/setup/ruby/#sinatra

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< /programming-lang-wrapper >}}

> ### 3. Application to Datadog Agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Check Datadog Agent configuration
```

 To troubleshoot this step of the process, do the following: 

- Check the details of the running Agent at this address `http://<agent-machine-name>:<agent-port>/info`, usually `http://localhost:8126/info`. 

> - Ensure there are no transmission errors related to spans in the [tracer logs][4]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure there are no Agent transmission errors related to spans in your [tracer logs][4]. 
```

> - If the agent is installed on a separate machine, check that `DD_AGENT_HOST` and optionally `DD_TRACE_AGENT_PORT` are set, or that `DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL` is set for the application / tracing library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the Agent is installed on a separate machine, check that `DD_AGENT_HOST` and, optionally, `DD_TRACE_AGENT_PORT` are set, or that `DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL` is set for the application tracing library.
```

> ### 4. Datadog Agent to backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4. Check Datadog Agent to backend configuration
```

> Application Security events are sent over [spans][5]. To confirm that spans are successfully transmitted to the backend, check that the tracer logs contain logs like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Application Security events are sent over [spans][5]. To confirm that spans are successfully transmitted to Datadog, check that your tracer logs contain logs that look similar to this:
```

```
2021-11-29 21:19:58 CET | TRACE | INFO | (pkg/trace/info/stats.go:111 in LogStats) | [lang:.NET lang_version:5.0.10 interpreter:.NET tracer_version:1.30.1.0 endpoint_version:v0.4] -> traces received: 2, traces filtered: 0, traces amount: 1230 bytes, events extracted: 0, events sampled: 0
```

> If spans are not being transmitted, then the tracer logs will contain logs like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If spans are not being transmitted, then the tracer logs will contain logs similar to this:
```

```
2021-11-29 21:18:48 CET | TRACE | INFO | (pkg/trace/info/stats.go:104 in LogStats) | No data received
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshooting by language

```

Below are additional troubleshooting steps for specific languages.

{{< programming-lang-wrapper langs="java,.NET,go,ruby,PHP,NodeJS" >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="java" >}}
The Java library uses [SLF4J][1] for logging. Add the following runtime flags so that the tracer logs to a file:

```java
 -Ddatadog.slf4j.simpleLogger.defaultLogLevel=info
 -Ddatadog.slf4j.simpleLogger.logFile=dd.log
```

> After the service starts, the tracer will log to the specified file. Datadog recommends using `INFO` for the log level because `DEBUG` logs are verbose.

Author: ```suggestion
After the service starts, the tracer logs to the specified file. Datadog recommends using `INFO` for the log level because `DEBUG` logs are verbose.
```

The log files are available in the following directories:

| Platform 	 | Log directory 	|
|------------|----------------|
| Docker 	   | The container's directory `/var/log/datadog/dotnet/`. A recommended option is to mount the log folder on the host machine using [volumes][1]. |
| Linux	     | /var/log/datadog/dotnet/	                                  |
| Windows 	 | C:\ProgramData\Datadog .NET Tracer\logs                    |

[1]: https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="PHP" >}}

For PHP, to start troubleshooting issues with the Datadog Application Security extension, enable debug logs in the Application Security extension’s `.ini` file.

The extension's `ini` file is usually found in `/etc/php/<version>/xxx/conf.d/98-ddappsec.ini`, but the location may differ depending on your installation. Look at the beginning of the `phpinfo()` output to identify the directory that is scanned for `.ini` files, if any. In the `.ini` file, set the following configuration options with the following: 

```php
ddappsec.log_level=‘debug’
ddappsec.helper_extra_args=‘--log_level=debug’
ddappsec.helper_log_file=‘/tmp/helper.log’
```

> The extension will output logs to the default `php_error` log file. If there are no logs in the file, add the following to the `.ini` file:

Author: ```suggestion
The extension outputs logs to the default `php_error` log file. If there are no logs in the file, add the following to the `.ini` file:
```

If the lock file or socket file has invalid permissions, you can either delete them and restart Apache/FPM or adjust the `user:group` to match the one used by Apache/FPM, for example, `www-data`.

If the user doesn’t have write access to the tmp directory, you can change the location of the lock file and socket file by modifying the following settings in the extension’s `.ini` file:

```
ddappsec.helper_socket_path = /<directory with compatible permissions>/ddappsec.sock
ddappsec.helper_lock_path = /<directory with compatible permissions>/ddappsec.lock
```

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="go" >}}

#### Installing the C toolchain

CGO requires the following:

- The `gcc` compiler for the target `GOOS` and `GOARCH`.
- The C library headers.

To install those libraries, use the command based on your OS:

| OS                   | Installation Command          |
|----------------------|-------------------------------|
| Debian, Ubuntu       | $ apt install gcc libc6-dev   |
| Alpine               | $ apk add gcc musl-dev	       |
| RHEL, CentOS, Fedora | $ yum install gcc glibc-devel |
| macOS	               | xcode-select --install        |

> 

Author: "Installing the C toolchain" is already in the Setup and Configuration, remove this?

Reviewer: +1 to removing if there isn't add't context here

#### Enable CGO

Follow the below instructions based on your situation:

- **You are not explicitly disabling CGO yourself.**
  
  - Set the `CGO_ENABLED` environment variable to `1` during the program compilation to enable it. For example:

    ```go
      env CGO_ENABLED=1 go build -tags appsec ./my/app
    ```

  - You might also have to install the [C toolchain](#installing-the-c-toolchain). 

> - **You are currently explicitly disabling CGO to statically link your Go program.**

Author: ```suggestion
- **You are explicitly disabling CGO to statically link your Go program.**
```

>   Static linking isn’t currently supported. If you can’t enable CGO for this reason, please contact [Datadog support][1] for additional help to get Application Security added to your application. 

Author: ```suggestion
  Static linking isn’t supported. If you can’t enable CGO for this reason, contact [Datadog support][1] for additional help to get Application Security added to your application. 
```

    c. If `appsec_enabled` is not in the startup logs, the latest Application Security version needs to be installed. See [installation instructions][2].

2. Is the tracer working? Can you see relevant traces on the APM dashboard? 

    Application Security relies on the tracer so if you don’t see traces, then the tracer might not be working. See [APM Troubleshooting][3].

3. In your application directory, run the command `npm explore @datadog/native-appsec -- npm run install` and restart your app.

    a. If `@datadog/native-appsec` is not found then the installation is incorrect. See [installation instructions][2].
    
    b. If it works, you probably build and run your app on different OS, add the command to your runtime start script.

    c. If it doesn’t work, you might be running an unsupported runtime.

4. To enable logs, add the following environment variables: 

    ```
    DD_TRACE_DEBUG=1
    DD_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL=info
    ```

[1]: /tracing/troubleshooting/tracer_startup_logs/
[2]: /security_platform/application_security/getting_started/nodejs/?tab=dockercli
[3]: /tracing/troubleshooting/
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="ruby" >}}

> For Ruby, if you don’t see Application Security events in your Application Security dashboard after a few minutes, enable tracer diagnostics for [debug logs][1] in the file `config/initializers/datadog-tracer.rb`, by following this example:

Author: ```suggestion
For Ruby, if you don’t see Application Security events in your Application Security dashboard after a few minutes, enable tracer diagnostics for [debug logs][1] in the file `config/initializers/datadog-tracer.rb`. For example:
```

```

If `c.use :rack` is present, remove it to see if the check passes.

#### Check #2b: Is Application Security detecting HTTP request security events?

To confirm that Application Security is detecting security events, trigger a [test attack](#1-send-a-test-attack-to-your-application), and look for these logs:

```
D, [2021-12-14T22:39:53.268820 #106051] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (ddtrace/lib/datadog/security/contrib/rack/reactive/request.rb:63:in `block in subscribe') WAF: #<struct Datadog::Security::WAF::Result action=:monitor, data=[{"rule"=>{"id"=>"ua0-600-10x", "name"=>"Nessus", "tags"=>{"type"=>"security_scanner", "category"=>"attack_attempt"}}, "rule_matches"=>[{"operator"=>"match_regex", "operator_value"=>"(?i)^Nessus(/|([ :]+SOAP))", "parameters"=>[{"address"=>"server.request.headers.no_cookies", "key_path"=>["user-agent"], "value"=>"Nessus SOAP", "highlight"=>["Nessus SOAP"]}]}]}], perf_data=nil, perf_total_runtime=20519>
```
If you don’t see those logs, check that another upstream security system is not filtering out the requests or altering them based on the test header value. 

#### Check #3a: Is the tracer sending traces with security data?

> Application Security events are sent via APM traces. To confirm that Application Security correctly detects and inserts security data into traces, trigger a [test attack](#1-send-a-test-attack-to-your-application), and look for these tracer logs:

Author: ```suggestion
Application Security events are sent with APM traces. To confirm that Application Security correctly detects and inserts security data into traces, trigger a [test attack](#1-send-a-test-attack-to-your-application), and look for these tracer logs:
```

```
Tags: [
   runtime-id => 0c3dfc67-9cf3-457c-a980-0229b203d048,
   _dd.runtime_family => ruby,
   appsec.event => true,
   _dd.appsec.json => {"triggers":[{"rule":{"id":"ua0-600-10x","name":"Nessus","tags":{"type":"security_scanner","category":"attack_attempt"}},"rule_matches":[{"operator":"match_regex","operator_value":"(?i)^Nessus(/|([ :]+SOAP))","parameters":[{"address":"server.request.headers.no_cookies","key_path":["user-agent"],"value":"Nessus SOAP","highlight":["Nessus SOAP"]}]}]}]},
   http.request.headers.host => 127.0.0.1:9292,
   http.request.headers.accept => */*,
   http.request.headers.user-agent => Nessus SOAP,
   http.response.headers.content-type => text/plain,
   http.host => 127.0.0.1,
   http.useragent => Nessus SOAP,
   network.client.ip => 127.0.0.1,
   _dd.origin => appsec,
   http.method => GET,
   http.url => /,
   http.base_url => http://127.0.0.1:9292,
   http.status_code => 200,
   http.response.headers.content_type => text/plain]
Metrics: [
   _dd.agent_psr => 1.0,
   system.pid => 155644.0,
   _dd.appsec.enabled => 1.0,
   _dd.measured => 1.0,
   _sampling_priority_v1 => 2.0]]
```

> Please wait a minute for the agent to forward the traces. Then check that the traces show up in the APM dashboard. The security information in the traces may take additional time to be processed by the backend before showing up as events in the Application Security dashboard.

Author: ```suggestion
Please wait a minute for the agent to forward the traces, then check that the traces show up in the APM dashboard. The security information in the traces may take additional time to be processed by the backend before showing up as events in the Application Security dashboard.
```

```

> Please wait about a minute for the agent to forward the events to the backend. Then check that the traces show up in the APM dashboard.

Author: ```suggestion
Please wait about a minute for the agent to forward the events to the backend, then check that the traces show up in the APM dashboard.
```

---
title: Troubleshooting Application Security Monitoring
kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "/security_platform/getting_started/"
  tag: "Documentation"

>   text: "Get Started Instrumenting Your Application to Send Signals"

Reviewer 4: Get Started Monitoring your Application Security to detect threats

- link: "/security_platform/application_security/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Monitoring Threats with Datadog Application Security"
- link: "/security_platform/application_security/setup_and_configure/#compatibility"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Programming Language and Framework Compatibility"
---

If you experience unexpected behavior with Datadog Application Security, there are common issues you can investigate, as mentioned below. If you continue to have trouble, reach out to [Datadog support][1] for further assistance. 

> ## Application Security data is not appearing in Datadog

Reviewer 4: The difference between this section and the "Application Security events are missing in the dashboard" is fuzzy to me. It seems to address the same issue at different level

Author: I consolidated the two sections so it's all under "No Suspicious Requests detected by Application Security".

Check your [tracer startup logs][2]. If `appsec_enabled` is `true`, then Application Security is enabled and running.

Alternatively, you can use the metric `datadog.apm.appsec_host` to check if Application Security is running.

1. Go to **Metrics > Summary** in Datadog.
2. Search for the metric `datadog.apm.appsec_host`. If the metric doesn’t exist, then there are no services running Application Security. If the metric exists, the services are reported with the metric tags `host` and `service`.
3. Select the metric, and in the **Tags** section, search for `service` to see which services are running Application Security.

> Check for `datadog.trace_agent.appsec.request` metrics to confirm the Datadog Agent is receiving Application Security events.
> 
> 1. Go to **Metrics > Summary** in Datadog.
> 2. Search for `datadog.trace_agent.appsec.request` metrics. If the metrics do not exist, then the Agent is not receiving Application Security events. If the metrics are found, but the Application Security dashboard doesn't show any data, check `datadog.trace_agent.appsec.request_error` to see if there are any errors related to sending the data to the Agent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

All of that is no longer true. It was for our early stage and it is no longer correct.

We should copy here the same troubleshooting metric guides that probably exists in the APM troubleshooting section?

Author: Removed this section. Added links to APM troubleshooting.

If you are not seeing `datadog.apm.appsec_host` or `datadog.trace_agent.appsec.request`, check the [in-app instructions][3] to confirm that all steps for the initial setup are complete.

## Application Security rate limits

Application Security traces are rate-limited to 100 traces per second. Traces sent after the limit are not reported. Contact [Datadog support][1] if you need to change the limit.

## Application Security events are missing in the dashboard

There are a series of steps that must run successfully for Application Security events to appear in the Application Security dashboard. It is important to check each step when investigating this issue. Additional troubleshooting steps for specific languages are in the language tab at the end.

> ### 1. Send a test attack to your application

Author: ```suggestion
### Send a test attack to your application
```

Simulate an attack to test your Application Security setup using the following command:

```

> curl -A Arachni/v YOUR_APP_URL

Reviewer 4: Here we should feature the "dd-scanner-test-log" like in the getting started https://docs.datadoghq.com/security_platform/application_security/getting_started/java/?tab=dockercli

Author: Changed to use "dd-scanner-test-log".

```

View the resulting Application Security event in the [Application Security dashboard][4]. 

It is possible that the test attack doesn't reach your application because of a firewall or another type of proxy server. It’s known that the following services block the Arachni test:

- AWS API Gateway: Removes the user-agent and malicious parameters, even when its built-in WAF is deactivated

> - Extensible Service Proxy (ESP) by Google 

Reviewer 4: This can go away thank to the "dd-scanner-test-log"

Author: Removed.

> To ensure that the Arachni test isn’t blocked:

Reviewer 5: We aren't really blocking at the moment, just detecting, so this could be misleading.

Reviewer 4: Can go away

Author: Removed

- Run the test from the machine hosting the service.
- Verify that curl returns 200.
- Verify that there is a trace with the attribute `@appsec.event:true`.
- If [debug logs][5] are available, look for the following logs to see if the test is being blocked:

  ```
  DAS-0011-00: AppSec In-App WAF returned: <full_iaw_output> Took <exec_duration> ms

  DDAS-0012-01: Detecting an attack from rule <rule_id>: <attack_info>

  DDAS-0012-02: Blocked attack from <full_iaw_output>
  ```

> ### 2. Check if required tracer integrations are deactivated

Author: ```suggestion
### Check if required tracer integrations are deactivated
```

Application Security relies on certain tracer integrations. If they are deactivated, Application Security won't work. To see if there are deactivated integrations, look for `disabled_integrations` in your [startup logs][2].

The required integrations vary by language.

{{< programming-lang-wrapper langs="java,.NET,go,ruby,PHP,NodeJS" >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="java" >}}

For Java, the required integrations are the following:

- servlet
- servlet-2
- servlet-3
- servlet-request-body
- grizzly
- grizzly-char-body
- grizzly-byte-body
- grizzly-filterchain
- spring-web
- spring-webflux

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang=".NET" >}}

For ..NET, the required integrations are the following:

- ASP.NET

**Note:** If ASP.NET Core is disabled, Application Security should still work with this framework.

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="PHP" >}}

> **[NEED INFO]**

Author: Need PHP required integration info here.

Reviewer 5: PHP AppSec doesn't require any integrations to be enabled, just the tracer itself.

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="go" >}}

For Go, the required integrations are the following:

- net/http
- Chi
- Echo
- Gorilla/mux
- gRPC

**Note:** They can’t be deactivated but rather just not integrated into the program’s source code.

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="NodeJS" >}}

For Node.js, the HTTP integration is required.

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="ruby" >}}

For Ruby, the Rack integration is required.

**Note:** Rack can be manually added or automatically added with the Rails or Sinatra integration. If manually added, the tracer middleware must appear before the security middleware in the Rack stack.

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< /programming-lang-wrapper >}}

> ### 3. Check Datadog Agent configuration

Author: ```suggestion
### Check Datadog Agent configuration
```

 To troubleshoot this step of the process, do the following: 

- Check the details of the running Agent at this address `http://<agent-machine-name>:<agent-port>/info`, usually `http://localhost:8126/info`. 
- Ensure there are no Agent transmission errors related to spans in your [tracer logs][5]. 
- If the Agent is installed on a separate machine, check that `DD_AGENT_HOST` and, optionally, `DD_TRACE_AGENT_PORT` are set, or that `DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL` is set for the application tracing library.

> ### 4. Check Datadog Agent to backend configuration

Author: ```suggestion
### Check Datadog Agent to backend configuration
```

1. Confirm the latest version of Application Security is running by checking that `appsec_enabled` is `true` in the [startup logs][1]

    a. If you don’t see startup logs after a request has been sent, add the environment variable `DD_TRACE_STARTUP_LOGS=true` to enable startup logs. Check the startup logs for `appsec_enabled` is `true`.

    b. If `appsec_enabled` is `false`, then Application Security was not enabled correctly. See [installation instructions][2].

    c. If `appsec_enabled` is not in the startup logs, the latest Application Security version needs to be installed. See [installation instructions][2].

2. Is the tracer working? Can you see relevant traces on the APM dashboard? 

    Application Security relies on the tracer so if you don’t see traces, then the tracer might not be working. See [APM Troubleshooting][3].

3. In your application directory, run the command `npm explore @datadog/native-appsec -- npm run install` and restart your app.

    a. If `@datadog/native-appsec` is not found then the installation is incorrect. See [installation instructions][2].
    

>     b. If @datadog/native-appsec is found when starting your application, add the command to your runtime start script.

Reviewer 6: Missed one!
```suggestion
    b. If `@datadog/native-appsec` is found when starting your application, add the command to your runtime start script.
```

Author: Thanks, fixed!

---
title: Troubleshooting Application Security Monitoring
kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "/security_platform/application_security/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Monitoring Threats with Datadog Application Security"
- link: "/security_platform/application_security/getting_started/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Get Started Using Application Security to Detect Threats"
- link: "/security_platform/application_security/setup_and_configure/#compatibility"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Programming Language and Framework Compatibility"
---

> If you experience unexpected behavior with Datadog Application Security, there are common issues you can investigate, as mentioned below. If you continue to have trouble, reach out to [Datadog support][1] for further assistance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Overview

If you experience unexpected behavior with Datadog Application Security, there are common issues you can investigate, as mentioned below. If you continue to have trouble, reach out to [Datadog support][1] for further assistance. 
```

### Confirm Application Security is enabled

You can use the metric `datadog.apm.appsec_host` to check if Application Security is running.

1. Go to **Metrics > Summary** in Datadog.
2. Search for the metric `datadog.apm.appsec_host`. If the metric doesn’t exist, then there are no services running Application Security. If the metric exists, the services are reported with the metric tags `host` and `service`.
3. Select the metric, and in the **Tags** section, search for `service` to see which services are running Application Security.

If you are not seeing `datadog.apm.appsec_host`, check the [in-app instructions][3] to confirm that all steps for the initial setup are complete.

Application Security data is sent with APM traces. See [APM troubleshooting][4] to [confirm APM setup][5] and check for [connection errors][6].

### Send a test attack to your application

 To test your Application Security setup, trigger the [Security Scanner Detected][7] rule by running a file that contains the following curl script: 

{{< programming-lang-wrapper langs="java,.NET,go,ruby,PHP,NodeJS" >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="java" >}}

> ```bash

Reviewer: Should most of these code examples be the same across all languages? Only difference I'm noticing is `Arachni/v1.0` vs. `dd-test-scanner-log`.

Reviewer 3: Note: I usually use `Nessus SOAP` for Ruby ;)

The key difference is:

- `Arachni/v1.0` is a real-life malicious user agent but might be caught by an earlier security system.
- `dd-test-scanner-log` is a canary user agent specific to Datadog so should not be caught by an earlier security system and is much more guaranteed to work, but feels "less real" to customers. Also `dd-test-scanner-log` may not be in all library variants yet (to be confirmed).

I seem to recall we want both examples ("real life" one + "should always work" one as fallback) and that they should be unified across languages, but this should probably be validated with each library owner.

**Note:** Rack can be manually added or automatically added with the [Rails][4] or [Sinatra][5] integration. If manually added, the tracer middleware must appear before the security middleware in the Rack stack.

[1]: /security_platform/application_security/setup_and_configure/
[2]: /tracing/setup_overview/setup/ruby/#rack
[3]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/blob/master/docs/UpgradeGuide.md#from-0x-to-10
[4]: /tracing/setup_overview/setup/ruby/#rails
[5]: /tracing/setup_overview/setup/ruby/#sinatra
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< /programming-lang-wrapper >}}

### Check Datadog Agent configuration

 To troubleshoot this step of the process, do the following: 

- Check the details of the running Agent at this address `http://<agent-machine-name>:<agent-port>/info`, usually `http://localhost:8126/info`. 
- Ensure there are no Agent transmission errors related to spans in your [tracer logs][7]. 
- If the Agent is installed on a separate machine, check that `DD_AGENT_HOST` and, optionally, `DD_TRACE_AGENT_PORT` are set, or that `DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL` is set for the application tracing library.

> ### Check Datadog Agent to backend configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check if spans are successfully transmitted to Datadog
```

```

#### Enable debug logs

Enable debug logs with the environment variable `DD_TRACE_DEBUG=1`. The Application Security library will log to the standard error output.

**Note:** Application Security only outputs logs when it is enabled. Use the environment variable `DD_APPSEC_ENABLED=1` to enable Application Security.

[1]: /tracing/troubleshooting/tracer_startup_logs/
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="NodeJS" >}}

> 

Reviewer 6: Somewhere around here maybe add a yellow warning box saying something like
`If you've upgraded your library from 1.x to 2.x, you may need to assess breaking changes with this guide: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-js/blob/master/MIGRATING.md`
You can change the wording if you want, and put it in another page if you think it's more relevant.

Reviewer 6: Great, I approved your other PR too!

### Send a test attack to your application

 To test your Application Security setup, trigger the [Security Scanner Detected][7] rule by running a file that contains the following curl script: 

{{< programming-lang-wrapper langs="java,.NET,go,ruby,PHP,NodeJS" >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="java" >}}

```bash
for ((i=1;i<=200;i++)); 
do
# Target existing service’s routes
curl https://your-application-url/existing-route -A dd-test-scanner-log;
# Target non existing service’s routes
curl https://your-application-url/non-existing-route -A dd-test-scanner-log;
done
```

**Note:** The `dd-test-scanner-log` value is supported in the most recent releases and in the application security event configuration file version >= 1.2.5.

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang=".NET" >}}

```bash
for ((i=1;i<=200;i++)); 
do
# Target existing service’s routes
curl https://your-application-url/existing-route -A dd-test-scanner-log;
# Target non existing service’s routes
curl https://your-application-url/non-existing-route -A dd-test-scanner-log;
done
```

> **Note:** The `dd-test-scanner-log` value is supported in the most recent releases and in the application security event configuration file version >= 1.2.5.

Reviewer 3: Is this version visible anywhere by the customer? It might be confusing to mention a version they can't check.

Author: Hey @lloeki let me know if this should be removed. It's also mentioned in the Setup and Configuration page. https://docs.datadoghq.com/security_platform/application_security/getting_started/java?tab=dockercli

2. Is the tracer working? Can you see relevant traces on the APM dashboard? 

    Application Security relies on the tracer so if you don’t see traces, then the tracer might not be working. See [APM Troubleshooting][5].

3. In your application directory, run the command `npm explore @datadog/native-appsec -- npm run install` and restart your app.

    a. If `@datadog/native-appsec` is not found then the installation is incorrect. See [installation instructions][4].
    
    b. If `@datadog/native-appsec` is found when starting your application, add the command to your runtime start script.

    c. If the tracer still does not work, you might be running an unsupported runtime.

4. To enable logs, add the following environment variables: 

    ```
    DD_TRACE_DEBUG=1
    DD_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL=info
    ```

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-js/blob/master/MIGRATING.md
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/security/appsec/
[3]: /tracing/troubleshooting/tracer_startup_logs/
[4]: /security_platform/application_security/getting_started/nodejs/?tab=dockercli
[5]: /tracing/troubleshooting/
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="ruby" >}}

> For Ruby, if you don’t see Application Security threat information in the [Trace and Signals Explorer][1] after a few minutes, enable tracer diagnostics for [debug logs][2] in the file `config/initializers/datadog-tracer.rb`. For example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For Ruby, if you don’t see Application Security threat information in the [Trace and Signals Explorer][1] after a few minutes, enable tracer diagnostics for [debug logs][2]. For example:
```

```ruby
Datadog.configure do |c|

>   c.diagnostics.debug = true

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  c.diagnostics.debug = true  # increase general log level to debug
  c.appsec.waf_debug = true   # also enable WAF-specific log verbosity to highest level
```

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< /programming-lang-wrapper >}}

A few minutes after you enable your application and exercise it, and if it's successful, threat information appears in the [Trace and Signals Explorer][2].

{{< img src="/security_platform/application_security/application-security-signal.png" alt="Security Signal details page showing tags, metrics, suggested next steps, and attacker IP addresses associated with a threat." style="width:100%;" >}}

### Check if required tracer integrations are deactivated

Application Security relies on certain tracer integrations. If they are deactivated, Application Security won't work. To see if there are deactivated integrations, look for `disabled_integrations` in your [startup logs][8].

The required integrations vary by language.

{{< programming-lang-wrapper langs="java,.NET,go,ruby,PHP,NodeJS" >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="java" >}}

For [Java][1], the required integrations are the following:

- servlet
- servlet-2
- servlet-3
- servlet-request-body
- grizzly
- grizzly-char-body
- grizzly-byte-body
- grizzly-filterchain
- spring-web

> - spring-webflux

Reviewer 7: This list needs to be updated. `jersey`, `jetty`, `ratpack-request-body`, `tomcat`, `resteasy`. It's a bit inconsistent, I now realize, but the instrumenters with `grizzly-char-body` and `grizzly-byte-body` were renamed also to simply `grizzly`.

Author: Hey @cataphract I updated the list and also the wording as we discussed over DM.

{{< programming-lang-wrapper langs="java,.NET,go,ruby,PHP,NodeJS" >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="java" >}}

For [Java][1], if you are using any of the following technologies, the respective integration is required:

- grizzly
- grizzly-filterchain
- jersey
- jetty
- ratpack
- ratpack-request-body (also requires ratpack)
- resteasy
- servlet
- servlet-2
- servlet-3
- servlet-request-body (also requires servlet)
- spring-web
- tomcat

[1]: /security_platform/application_security/setup_and_configure/
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang=".NET" >}}

For [.NET][1], the ASP.NET integration is required.

**Note:** If ASP.NET Core is disabled, Application Security should still work with this framework.

[1]: /security_platform/application_security/setup_and_configure/
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="PHP" >}}

The are no required integrations for [PHP][1].

[1]: /security_platform/application_security/setup_and_configure/
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="go" >}}

The following [Go][1] frameworks should be instrumented using the out-of-the-box APM integrations:

- [gRPC][2]
- [net/http][3]
- [Gorilla Mux][4]
- [Echo][5]
- [Chi][6]

> Please let us know if your framework is not supported by [creating a new issue][7] in the Go repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your framework is not supported, [create a new issue][7] in the Go repository.
```

- link: "/security_platform/application_security/setup_and_configure/#compatibility"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Programming Language and Framework Compatibility"
---

If you experience unexpected behavior with Datadog Application Security, there are common issues you can investigate, as mentioned below. If you continue to have trouble, reach out to [Datadog support][1] for further assistance. 

## Application Security rate limits

Application Security traces are rate-limited to 100 traces per second. Traces sent after the limit are not reported. Contact [Datadog support][1] if you need to change the limit.

## No Suspicious Requests detected by Application Security

There are a series of steps that must run successfully for threat information to appear in the Application Security [Trace and Signals Explorer][2]. It is important to check each step when investigating this issue. Additional troubleshooting steps for specific languages are in the language tab at the end.

### Confirm Application Security is enabled

Check your [tracer startup logs][3]. If `appsec_enabled` is `true`, then Application Security is enabled and running.

> Alternatively, you can use the metric `datadog.apm.appsec_host` to check if Application Security is running.

Author: Sounds good, removed.

1. Go to **Metrics > Summary** in Datadog.
2. Search for the metric `datadog.apm.appsec_host`. If the metric doesn’t exist, then there are no services running Application Security. If the metric exists, the services are reported with the metric tags `host` and `service`.
3. Select the metric, and in the **Tags** section, search for `service` to see which services are running Application Security.

If you are not seeing `datadog.apm.appsec_host`, check the [in-app instructions][4] to confirm that all steps for the initial setup are complete.

Application Security data is sent with APM traces. See [APM troubleshooting][5] to [confirm APM setup][6] and check for [connection errors][7].

### Send a test attack to your application

 To test your Application Security setup, trigger the [Security Scanner Detected][8] rule by running a file that contains the following curl script: 

{{< programming-lang-wrapper langs="java,.NET,go,ruby,PHP,NodeJS" >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="java" >}}

> ```curl

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash
```

for ((i=1;i<=200;i++)); 
do
# Target existing service’s routes
curl https://your-application-url/existing-route -A dd-test-scanner-log;
# Target non existing service’s routes
curl https://your-application-url/non-existing-route -A dd-test-scanner-log;
done
```

**Note:** The `dd-test-scanner-log` value is supported in the most recent releases and in the application security event configuration file version >= 1.2.5.

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang=".NET" >}}

> ```curl

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash
```

for ((i=1;i<=200;i++)); 
do
# Target existing service’s routes
curl https://your-application-url/existing-route -A dd-test-scanner-log;
# Target non existing service’s routes
curl https://your-application-url/non-existing-route -A dd-test-scanner-log;
done
```

**Note:** The `dd-test-scanner-log` value is supported in the most recent releases and in the application security event configuration file version >= 1.2.5.

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="go" >}}

>  ```curl

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 ```bash
```

 for ((i=1;i<=200;i++)); 
do
# Target existing service’s routes
curl https://your-application-url/existing-route -A Arachni/v1.0;
# Target non existing service’s routes
curl https://your-application-url/non-existing-route -A Arachni/v1.0;
done
```

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="ruby" >}}

>  ```curl

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 ```bash
```

 for ((i=1;i<=200;i++)); 
do
# Target existing service’s routes
curl https://your-application-url/existing-route -A Arachni/v1.0;
# Target non existing service’s routes
curl https://your-application-url/non-existing-route -A Arachni/v1.0;
done
```

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="PHP" >}}

> ```curl

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash
```

for ((i=1;i<=200;i++)); 
do
# Target existing service’s routes
curl https://your-application-url/existing-route -A dd-test-scanner-log;
# Target non existing service’s routes
curl https://your-application-url/non-existing-route -A dd-test-scanner-log;
done
```

**Note:** The `dd-test-scanner-log` value is supported in the most recent releases and in the application security event configuration file version >= 1.2.5.

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="NodeJS" >}}

> ```curl

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash
```

Application Security relies on certain tracer integrations. If they are deactivated, Application Security won't work. To see if there are deactivated integrations, look for `disabled_integrations` in your [startup logs][3].

The required integrations vary by language.

{{< programming-lang-wrapper langs="java,.NET,go,ruby,PHP,NodeJS" >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="java" >}}

For [Java][1], the required integrations are the following:

- servlet
- servlet-2
- servlet-3
- servlet-request-body
- grizzly
- grizzly-char-body
- grizzly-byte-body
- grizzly-filterchain
- spring-web
- spring-webflux

[1]: /security_platform/application_security/setup_and_configure/
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang=".NET" >}}

For [.NET][1], the ASP.NET integration is required.

**Note:** If ASP.NET Core is disabled, Application Security should still work with this framework.

[1]: /security_platform/application_security/setup_and_configure/
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="PHP" >}}

The are no required integrations for [PHP][1].

[1]: /security_platform/application_security/setup_and_configure/
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="go" >}}

> For [Go][1], the required integrations are the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following [Go][1] frameworks should be instrumented using the out-of-the-box APM integrations:
```

- [gRPC][2]
- [net/http][3]
- [Gorilla Mux][4]
- [Echo][5]
- [Chi][6]

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please let us know if your framework is not supported by [creating a new issue](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/issues/new?title=Missing%20appsec%20framework%20support) in the Go repository.

```

```

The warning could be followed by one of these error messages:

```
PHP Warning:  Unknown: [ddappsec] Could not open lock file /tmp/ddappsec.lock: Permission denied in Unknown on line 0
```
```
PHP Warning:  Unknown: [ddappsec] Call to bind() failed: Permission denied
```
```
PHP Warning:  Unknown: [ddappsec] Failed to unlink /tmp/ddappsec.sock: Operation not permitted
```

This indicates that the lock file or socket file used by the extension has invalid permissions, or the user executing the PHP process does not have write access to the `tmp` directory. 

If the lock file or socket file has invalid permissions, you can either delete them and restart Apache/FPM or adjust the `user:group` to match the one used by Apache/FPM, for example, `www-data`.

If the user doesn’t have write access to the tmp directory, you can change the location of the lock file and socket file by modifying the following settings in the extension’s `.ini` file:

```
ddappsec.helper_socket_path = /<directory with compatible permissions>/ddappsec.sock
ddappsec.helper_lock_path = /<directory with compatible permissions>/ddappsec.lock
```

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="go" >}}

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

#### Knowing if AppSec is enabled in the running application

The startup logs show the tracer configuration and whether AppSec in enabled or not. AppSec is enabled when the configuration field `appsec` is `true` and disabled otherwise.

For example, the following startup log shows the AppSec is disabled:
```
2022/02/17 14:49:00 Datadog Tracer v1.36.0 INFO: DATADOG TRACER CONFIGURATION {"date":"2022-02-17T14:49:00+01:00","os_name":"Linux (Unknown Distribution)","os_version":"5.13.0","version":"v1.36.0","lang":"Go","lang_version":"go1.17.1","env":"prod","service":"grpcserver","agent_url":"http://localhost:8126/v0.4/traces","debug":false,"analytics_enabled":false,"sample_rate":"NaN","sampling_rules":null,"sampling_rules_error":"","service_mappings":null,"tags":{"runtime-id":"69d99219-b68f-4718-9419-fa173a79351e"},"runtime_metrics_enabled":false,"health_metrics_enabled":false,"profiler_code_hotspots_enabled":false,"profiler_endpoints_enabled":false,"dd_version":"","architecture":"amd64","global_service":"","lambda_mode":"false","appsec":false,"agent_features":{"DropP0s":false,"Stats":false,"StatsdPort":0}}
```

#### Enabling debug logs

Debug logs can be enabled with the environment variable `DD_TRACE_DEBUG=1`. AppSec library will log to the standard error output what is happening.

Note that AppSec only logs when it is enabled (using the environment variable `DD_APPSEC_ENABLED=1`). 
```

> #### Installing the C toolchain
> 
> CGO requires the following:
> 
> - The `gcc` compiler for the target `GOOS` and `GOARCH`.
> - The C library headers.
> 
> To install those libraries, use the command based on your OS:
> 
> | OS                   | Installation Command          |
> |----------------------|-------------------------------|
> | Debian, Ubuntu       | $ apt install gcc libc6-dev   |
> | Alpine               | $ apk add gcc musl-dev	       |
> | RHEL, CentOS, Fedora | $ yum install gcc glibc-devel |
> | macOS	               | xcode-select --install        |
> 

Reviewer 2: Duplicate of the setup and configuration go page:
```suggestion
```

> #### Enable CGO
> 
> Follow the below instructions based on your situation:
> 
> - **You are not explicitly disabling CGO yourself.**
>   
>   - Set the `CGO_ENABLED` environment variable to `1` during the program compilation to enable it. For example:
> 
>     ```go
>       env CGO_ENABLED=1 go build -tags appsec ./my/app
>     ```
> 
>   - You might also have to install the [C toolchain](#installing-the-c-toolchain). 
> 
> - **You are explicitly disabling CGO to statically link your Go program.**
>   
>   Static linking isn’t supported. If you can’t enable CGO for this reason, contact [Datadog support][1] for additional help to get Application Security added to your application. 
> 
> [1]: /help/

Reviewer 2: Duplicate of the setup and configuration go page:
```suggestion
```

    
    b. If `@datadog/native-appsec` is found when starting your application, add the command to your runtime start script.

    c. If the tracer still does not work, you might be running an unsupported runtime.

4. To enable logs, add the following environment variables: 

    ```
    DD_TRACE_DEBUG=1
    DD_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL=info
    ```

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/security/appsec/
[2]: /tracing/troubleshooting/tracer_startup_logs/
[3]: /security_platform/application_security/getting_started/nodejs/?tab=dockercli
[4]: /tracing/troubleshooting/
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="ruby" >}}

For Ruby, if you don’t see Application Security threat information in the [Trace and Signals Explorer][1] after a few minutes, enable tracer diagnostics for [debug logs][2] in the file `config/initializers/datadog-tracer.rb`. For example:

```ruby
Datadog.configure do |c|
  c.diagnostics.debug = true
end
```

Debug logs are verbose but useful. If you open up a ticket with [Datadog support][1], forward the logs with your request.

#### Is AppSec correctly enabled?

Application Security has been correctly enabled if you see logs such as:

```

> D, [2021-12-14T11:03:32.167125 #73127] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (libddwaf/lib/datadog/security/waf.rb:296:in `block in logger=') {:level=>:ddwaf_log_info, :func=> "ddwaf_set_log_cb", :file=>"PowerWAFInterface.cpp", :message=>"Sending log messages to binding, min level trace"}
> D, [2021-12-14T11:03:32.200491 #73127] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (libddwaf/lib/datadog/security/waf.rb:296:in `block in logger=') {:level=>:ddwaf_log_debug, :func= >"parse", :file=>"parser_v2.cpp", :message=>"Loaded 124 rules out of 124 available in the ruleset"}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
D, [2021-12-14T11:03:32.167125 #73127] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (libddwaf/lib/datadog/appsec/waf.rb:296:in `block in logger=') {:level=>:ddwaf_log_info, :func=> "ddwaf_set_log_cb", :file=>"PowerWAFInterface.cpp", :message=>"Sending log messages to binding, min level trace"}
D, [2021-12-14T11:03:32.200491 #73127] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (libddwaf/lib/datadog/appsec/waf.rb:296:in `block in logger=') {:level=>:ddwaf_log_debug, :func= >"parse", :file=>"parser_v2.cpp", :message=>"Loaded 124 rules out of 124 available in the ruleset"}
```

```

If you do not see those logs, check the following:

- If the correct Application Security environment variables are set for your application process. 
- The latest gem version is installed.
- The tracer is configured correctly and sending APM traces to your APM dashboard.

#### Is Application Security called for each HTTP request?

To confirm that Application Security is called for each HTTP request, trigger a [test attack](#send-a-test-attack-to-your-application) and look for these logs:

```

> D, [2022-01-19T21:25:50.579745 #341792] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (/home/lloeki/src/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/lib/datadog/security/reactive/operation.rb:14:in `initialize') operation: rack.request initialize
> D, [2022-01-19T21:25:50.580300 #341792] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (/home/lloeki/src/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/lib/datadog/security/contrib/rack/gateway/watcher.rb:25:in `block (2 levels) in watch') root span: 964736568335365930
> D, [2022-01-19T21:25:50.580371 #341792] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (/home/lloeki/src/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/lib/datadog/security/contrib/rack/gateway/watcher.rb:26:in `block (2 levels) in watch') active span: 964736568335365930
> D, [2022-01-19T21:25:50.581061 #341792] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (/home/lloeki/src/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/lib/datadog/security/contrib/rack/reactive/request.rb:34:in `block in subscribe') reacted to ["request.headers", "request.uri.raw", "request.query", "request.cookies", "request.body.raw"]: [{"version"=>"HTTP/1.1", "host"=>"127.0.0.1:9292", "accept"=>"*/*", "user-agent"=>"Nessus SOAP"}, "http://127.0.0.1:9292/", [], {}, ""]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
D, [2022-01-19T21:25:50.579745 #341792] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (/home/lloeki/src/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/lib/datadog/appsec/reactive/operation.rb:14:in `initialize') operation: rack.request initialize
D, [2022-01-19T21:25:50.580300 #341792] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (/home/lloeki/src/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/lib/datadog/appsec/contrib/rack/gateway/watcher.rb:25:in `block (2 levels) in watch') root span: 964736568335365930
D, [2022-01-19T21:25:50.580371 #341792] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (/home/lloeki/src/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/lib/datadog/appsec/contrib/rack/gateway/watcher.rb:26:in `block (2 levels) in watch') active span: 964736568335365930
D, [2022-01-19T21:25:50.581061 #341792] DEBUG -- ddtrace: [ddtrace] (/home/lloeki/src/github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/lib/datadog/appsec/contrib/rack/reactive/request.rb:34:in `block in subscribe') reacted to ["request.headers", "request.uri.raw", "request.query", "request.cookies", "request.body.raw"]: [{"version"=>"HTTP/1.1", "host"=>"127.0.0.1:9292", "accept"=>"*/*", "user-agent"=>"Nessus SOAP"}, "http://127.0.0.1:9292/", [], {}, ""]
```

```

If you don’t see those logs, try the following:

- Check that another upstream security system is not filtering requests based on the test header value, which would prevent the request from reaching the application. 
- Send another [test attack](#send-a-test-attack-to-your-application) using another user's agent values in the curl command to see if the threat information is successfully sent.
- Look in the application logs for the exact request you ran to confirm the request reached the application, and was not responded to by another upstream system.

If the Rack integration was configured manually, sometimes a known issue prevents Application Security from working. For example:

```
Datadog.configure do |c|

>   c.use :rails

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  c.instrument :rails
```

   http.request.headers.host => 127.0.0.1:9292,
   http.request.headers.accept => */*,
   http.request.headers.user-agent => Nessus SOAP,
   http.response.headers.content-type => text/plain,
   http.host => 127.0.0.1,
   http.useragent => Nessus SOAP,
   network.client.ip => 127.0.0.1,
   _dd.origin => appsec,
   http.method => GET,
   http.url => /,
   http.base_url => http://127.0.0.1:9292,
   http.status_code => 200,
   http.response.headers.content_type => text/plain]
Metrics: [
   _dd.agent_psr => 1.0,
   system.pid => 155644.0,
   _dd.appsec.enabled => 1.0,
   _dd.measured => 1.0,
   _sampling_priority_v1 => 2.0]]
```

Wait a minute for the agent to forward the traces, then check that the traces show up in the APM dashboard. The security information in the traces may take additional time to be processed by Datadog before showing up as suspicious requests in the Application Security [Trace and Signals Explorer][1].

> #### Is Application Security forwarding security threats to the Agent?

Author: Removed.
